Overhaul Main Workflow Docs (#107415)
dotnet/runtime: docs/workflow/README.md

# Workflow Guide

- [Introduction](#introduction)
- [Important Concepts to Understand](#important-concepts-to-understand)
  - [Build Configurations](#build-configurations)
- [Building the Repo](#building-the-repo)
  - [General Overview](#general-overview)
  - [Get Started on your Platform and Components](#get-started-on-your-platform-and-components)
  - [General Recommendations](#general-recommendations)
- [Testing the Repo](#testing-the-repo)
  - [Performance Analysis](#performance-analysis)
- [Warnings as Errors](#warnings-as-errors)
- [Submitting a PR](#submitting-a-pr)
- [Triaging Errors in CI](#triaging-errors-in-ci)

## Introduction

> The runtime repo can be worked with on Windows, Linux, macOS, and FreeBSD. Each platform has its own specific requirements to work properly, and not all architectures are supported for dev work. The following table shows the matrix of compatibility, as well as links to each OS's requirements doc. If you are using WSL directly (i.e. not Docker), then follow the Linux requirements doc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When working with the runtime repo, it is helpful to think about two platforms/architectures:
1. The platform on which the repo is checked out and where the build tools are running.  (This is the *build* architecture)
2. The platform on which the built artifacts will execute. (This is the *target* architecture)

The scenario where the build architecture and the target architecture differ is known as *cross-compiling*.  For some workflows (for example: building the runtime for WebAssembly) cross-compilation is common.  For other workflows, cross-compilation is unusual.

The runtime supports many target platforms/architectures including macOS, Linux, Android, WASI, the browser and Windows on architectures including WebAssembly, arm64, amd64 and x86.

The runtime supports only a limited set of build platforms such as Windows, Linux, macOS, and FreeBSD. Eachbuild  platform has its own specific requirements to work properly. Not all build architectures are supported for dev work. The following table shows the matrix of compatibility, as well as links to each OS's requirements doc. If you are using WSL directly (i.e. not Docker), then follow the Linux requirements doc.
```

| Chip  | Windows  | Linux    | macOS    | FreeBSD  |
| :---: | :------: | :------: | :------: | :------: |
| x64   | &#x2714; | &#x2714; | &#x2714; | &#x2714; |
| x86   | &#x2714; | &#x2718; | &#x2718; | &#x2718; |
| Arm32 | &#x2718; | &#x2714; | &#x2718; | &#x2718; |

> | Arm64 | &#x2714; | &#x2714; | &#x2714; | &#x2718; |

Reviewer: nit: I found the table easier to read at a glance without the &#x2718;

The *Build Platform* and the *Target Platform* can be either the same of different from each other. The former scenario is straightforward, as you will most likely be doing all the work on the same machine. When working with the latter one, the process is called *cross-compiling*. There are certain workflows that require you to follow this process, as it is not possible to build the repo directly on those platforms (e.g., Web Assembly (WASM), Browser, Mobiles). The full instructions on how to work with this are detailed in the building docs later on.

Additionally, keep in mind that cloning the full history of this repo takes roughly 400-500 MB of network transfer, inflating to a repository that can consume somewhere between 1 to 1.5 GB. A build of the repo can take somewhere between 10 and 20 GB of space for a single OS and Platform configuration depending on the portions of the product built. This might increase over time, so consider this to be a minimum bar for working with this codebase.

The runtime repo consists of three major components:

- The Runtimes (CoreCLR and Mono)
- The Libraries
- The Hosts and Installers

> You can run your builds from a regular terminal, from the root of the repository. Sudo and administrator privileges are not needed for this.

Author: There are some workflows where they call the build script from elsewhere (e.g. `../../runtime/build.sh`)

  - *Mono*: A slimmer runtime than CoreCLR, originally born open-source to bring .NET and C# support to non-Windows platforms. Due to its lightweight nature, it is less affected in terms of speed when working with the *Debug* configuration. Its source code lives in under the [src/mono](/src/mono) subtree.

- **CoreLib** *(also known as System.Private.CoreLib)*: The lowest level managed library. It is directly related to the runtime, which means it must be built in the matching configuration (e.g. Building a *Debug* runtime means *CoreLib* must also be in *Debug*). You usually don't have to worry about that, since the `clr` subset includes it, but there are some special cases where you might need to build it separately. The runtime agnostic code for this library can be found at [src/libraries/System.Private.CoreLib/src](/src/libraries/System.Private.CoreLib/src/README.md).

- **Libraries**: The bulk of dll's providing the rest of the functionality to the runtime. The libraries can be built in their own configuration, regardless of which one the runtime is using. Their source code lives in under the [src/libraries](/src/libraries) subtree.

## Building the Repo

> The main script that will be in charge of most of the building you might want to do is the `build.sh`, or `build.cmd` on Windows, located at the root of the repo. This script receives as arguments the subset(s) you might want to build, as well as multiple parameters to configure your build, such as the configuration, target operating system, target architecture, and so on.

Author: Oh that is explained right after. There is the list of the most commonly used subset values, and then it mentions the existence of sub-subsets and that you can pass `-subset help` to get the full list.

**NOTE:** If you plan on using Docker to work on the runtime repo, read [this doc](/docs/workflow/using-docker.md) first, as it explains how to set it up, as well as the images and the containers, so that you are ready to start following the building and testing instructions in the next sections and their linked docs.

### General Overview

Running the script as is with no arguments whatsoever, will build the whole repo in *Debug* configuration, for the OS and architecture of your machine. But you probably will be working with only one or two components at a time, so it is more efficient to just build those. This is done by means of the `-subset` flag. For example, for CoreCLR, it would be:

```bash

> ./build.sh -subset clr

Author: I think it is very well implied that it the script names differ between platforms, so we can avoid overwhelming with details that are most likely already known or easy to infer

> ./build.sh -subset clr

Reviewer 2: When I started, I did not know this and would have appreciated a clarification.

```

The main subset values you can use are:

- `Clr`: The full CoreCLR runtime
- `Libs`: All the libraries components, excluding their tests. This includes the libraries' native parts, refs, source assemblies, and their packages and test infrastructure.
- `Packs`: The shared framework packs, archives, bundles, installers, and the framework pack tests.
- `Host`: The .NET hosts, packages, hosting libraries, and their tests.

> - `Mono`: The Mono runtime and its CoreLib.

Author: @lambdageek @kg
